DESIGN

We implemented the client and host sides of our project in two different areas. The client side consists of a mobile application implemented in React Native that simply prompts the user to log in to GroupJam with their Spotify account and sends our application their top tracks in JSON format. This is meant to be a simple interface, as the only purpose of the mobile application is to grant our web application permission to access a user's Spotify data. We implemented the client (guest) side of the application as a mobile app because we felt like it would be easier and more user-friendly than a mobile site. A user could permanently have their app installed and perhaps even their login information, thus greatly facilitating the user experience.

The web application, written with an HTML front end and a Flask Python back end, takes the user's Spotify song data, specifically their top songs, and retrieves the audio features associated with these songs. We chose to implement the host's web application as a Python-based web application because of the ease of access to the Spotify API. In fact, there is a Python library called "Spotipy" to assist with accessing the Spotify API. We used this library extensively because it integrated well with our Python backend. Since our application is intended to be an immediate-use generation of playlists, we found no need to use a SQL database to store data long-term. All data is stored in memory because it is faster and easier to access data immediately. Since each new session of our web application requires entirely new user data, it was unnecessary and probably slower in our implementation to use a database. 

The central functionality of our project is the playlist-generating algorithm. The algorithm aggregates the top 20 most-played songs for each user logged in and generates an average of certain metrics associated with each to generate an aggregated music taste profile for the group of users logged in. In effect, this creates a description of the "perfect song." Then, the algorithm loops through Spotify's top songs and adds the numerically "closest" songs to a final intelligent group playlist. Then, we embed this playlist in our website, allowing the host to play music through their computer.